WIP: Editorial Suggestions (#6)
sapegin/washingcode-book: manuscript/book.md

## Avoid loops

Traditional loops, like `for` or `while`, are too low-level for common tasks. They are too verbose and prone to [off-by-one error](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Off-by-one_error). You have to manage the index variable yourself, and I always make typos with `lenght`. They don’t bring any particular semantic value except telling that you’re doing some operation probably more than once.

### Replacing loops with array methods

> Modern languages have better ways to express iterative operations and [JavaScript has may useful methods](http://exploringjs.com/impatient-js/ch_arrays.html#methods-iteration-and-transformation-.find-.map-.filter-etc) to transform and iterate over arrays, like `.map()` or `.find()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modern languages have better ways to express iterative operations and [JavaScript has many useful methods](http://exploringjs.com/impatient-js/ch_arrays.html#methods-iteration-and-transformation-.find-.map-.filter-etc) to transform and iterate over arrays, like `.map()` or `.find()`.
```

Notices a typo ;-/

}
```

> Same example but with the `.map()` method instead of `for` loop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And with the `.map()` method instead of a `for` loop:
```

Otherwise `example` is repeated.

```js
const names = ['Bilbo Baggins', 'Gandalf', 'Gollum'];
const kebabNames = names.map(name => _.kebabCase(name));
```

> We can shorten it even more if our processing function accepts the value as first argument, [kebabCase from Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs#kebabCase) does:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can shorten it even more if our callback function accepts only one argument: the value, like [kebabCase from Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs#kebabCase):
```

See the next suggestion for the second part ;-)

> We can shorten it even more if our processing function accepts the value as first argument, [kebabCase from Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs#kebabCase) does:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can shorten it even more if our callback function takes only one argument, so the array index, passed by the `.map()` method, won't affect the result. Like [kebabCase](https://lodash.com/docs#kebabCase) from Lodash:
```

Doesn't make sense after the changes. But I've tried to rephrase it.

> We can shorten it even more if our processing function accepts the value as first argument, [kebabCase from Lodash](https://lodash.com/docs#kebabCase) does:

Author: ```suggestion
We can shorten it even more by passing reference to the callback function if it accepts only one argument, so the array index, passed by the `.map()` method as a second argument, does not affect the result. 
Like [kebabCase](https://lodash.com/docs#kebabCase) from Lodash:
```

Reviewer: I don't understand this sentence at all ;-/

⌛️ Should think how to better explain it.

Author: Indeed this is a complicated sentence. I think splitting this conditional sentence into two sentences would make it easier to consume. Something like:
`If <requirements for the improvement> are met, you can <do the improvement>` style

```js
const names = ['Bilbo Baggins', 'Gandalf', 'Gollum'];
const kebabNames = names.map(_.kebabCase);

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```

This wouldn't work with functions that accept more than one argument, because the `.map()` also passes and array index as the second argument and a whole array as the third, like `parseInt()` that accepts the radix as the second argument:

```js
const inputs = ['1', '2', '3'];
inputs.map(parseInt); // -> [1, NaN, NaN]
inputs.map(value => parseInt(value)); // -> [1, 2, 3]
```

Here in the first example `.map()` calls `parseInt()` with an array index as a radix, which gives a wrong result. In the second example, we're explicitly passing only the value to the `parseInt()`, so it uses the default radix of 10.
````

const foundName = names.find(name => name.startsWith('B'));
```

In both cases, I much prefer versions with array methods compared to `for` loops. They are shorter and we’re not bloating the code with iteration mechanics.

### Implied semantics of array methods

Array methods aren’t just shorter and more readable; each method has its own clear semantic:

> - `.map()` implies we’re transforming an array into another array with the same number of elements;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.map()` says we’re transforming an array into another array with the same number of elements;
```

Doesn't read well for my taste.

> - `.find()` implies we’re _finding_ a single element in an array;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.find()` says we’re _finding_ a single element in an array;
```

> - `.some()` implies we’re testing that the condition is true for _some_ elements of the array;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.some()` says we’re testing that the condition is true for _some_ elements of the array;
```

> - `.every()` implies we’re testing that the condition is true for _every_ element of the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `.every()` says we’re testing that the condition is true for _every_ element of the array.
```

Traditional loops don’t help with understanding what the code is doing until you read the whole thing.

We’re separating the “what” (our data) from the “how” (how to loop over it). More than that, with array methods we only need to worry about our data, which we’re passing in as a callback function.

> Using array methods for simple cases and leaving array loops for complicated parts helps the reviewer easily identify the unusual parts of the code. This helps the reviewer concentrate on the complex part of the code.

Reviewer: ⌛️ I'll need to think about this. I don't like the changes but maybe I can improve the original.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When all simple cases are covered by array methods, every time you see a traditional loop, you know that something unusual is going on. And that’s good: less chances you’ll miss a bug during code review.

```

> Also don’t use generic array methods like `.map()` or `.forEach()` when more specialized array methods could be applied, and don’t use `.forEach()` when you want to transform the array, there is `.map()` for that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also don’t use generic array methods like `.map()` or `.forEach()` when more specialized array methods would work, and don’t use `.forEach()` instead of `.map()` to transform an array.
```

Simplify.

Author: They both would work, but the point is to use the one which applies the best. That's the intention I got from the sentence.

Author: Your second sentence is much better! Keep in mind both would work would be nice to find a different word for that.

const kebabNames = names.map(name => _.kebabCase(name));
```

> This version is much easier to read because we know that the `.map()` method transforms an array by keeping the same number of items. And unlike `.forEach()`, it doesn’t require a custom implementation nor mutate an output array. Also, the callback function is now pure: it doesn’t access any variables in the parent function, only function arguments. Giving you the benefit of having to only reason about values and not about state

Reviewer: ⌛️ I don't understand this sentence, but maybe I can improve something here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This version is much easier to read because we know that the `.map()` method transforms an array by keeping the same number of items. And unlike `.forEach()`, it doesn’t require a custom implementation nor mutate an output array. Also, the callback function is now pure: it merely transforms input arguments to the output value without any side effects.
```

Still doesn't explain much — I need to think how and where to explain things like "what is a pure function".

    )
  );
```

> If I was to review such code I would be happy to pass both versions but would prefer the original version with double `for` loops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If I was to review such code I would be happy to pass both versions but would prefer the original version with double `for` loops.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```js
```

```js
if (food === 'pizza')
{

>     alert('Pizza ;-)');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alert('Pizza ;-)');
```

Author: Hmm.. Might have to look at the formatter settings I use

}
else
{

>     alert('Not pizza ;-(');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  alert('Not pizza ;-(');
```
